Data Set Information:

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain

- run_analysis.R downloads the zip file from https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip and unzips it,
- it merges the test and train files to create one data set by reading in and combining the X_test with X_train, y_test with y_train and subject_test with subject_train to form xData (10299 X 561), yData (10299 X 1) and sData (10299 X 1) datasets respectively. These three datasets are then merged into one dataset called "data" (10299 X 563); 
- it extracts the mean and standard deviation for each measurement by using the grep function;
- it uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set by reading in the "activity_labels.txt" file, and assigning the data in that file to labels in the "yData" dataset;
- it labels the data set with descriptive variable names,
- it creates a second, independent tidy data set called "UCI-HAR.csv" with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject

Mean and Std Dev is calculated for each of the following:
For each measurement the mean, stddev, and mean frequency were calculated.

SubjectID, Class_Name, tBodyAcc_mean_X, tBodyAcc_mean_Y, tBodyAcc_mean_Z, tBodyAcc_std_X, tBodyAcc_std_Y, tBodyAcc_std_Z, tGravityAcc_mean_X, tGravityAcc_mean_Y, tGravityAcc_mean_Z, tGravityAcc_std_X, tGravityAcc_std_Y, tGravityAcc_std_Z, tBodyAccJerk_mean_X, tBodyAccJerk_mean_Y, tBodyAccJerk_mean_Z, tBodyAccJerk_std_X, tBodyAccJerk_std_Y, tBodyAccJerk_std_Z, tBodyGyro_mean_X, tBodyGyro_mean_Y, tBodyGyro_mean_Z, tBodyGyro_std_X, tBodyGyro_std_Y, tBodyGyro_std_Z, tBodyGyroJerk_mean_X, tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Y, tBodyGyroJerk_mean_Z, tBodyGyroJerk_std_X, tBodyGyroJerk_std_Y, tBodyGyroJerk_std_Z, tBodyAccMag_mean, tBodyAccMag_std, tGravityAccMag_mean, tGravityAccMag_std, tBodyAccJerkMag_mean, tBodyAccJerkMag_std, tBodyGyroMag_mean, tBodyGyroMag_std, tBodyGyroJerkMag_mean, tBodyGyroJerkMag_std, fBodyAcc_mean_X, fBodyAcc_mean_Y, fBodyAcc_mean_Z, fBodyAcc_std_X, fBodyAcc_std_Y, fBodyAcc_std_Z, fBodyAcc_meanFreq_X, fBodyAcc_meanFreq_Y, fBodyAcc_meanFreq_Z, fBodyAccJerk_mean_X, fBodyAccJerk_mean_Y, fBodyAccJerk_mean_Z, fBodyAccJerk_std_X, fBodyAccJerk_std_Y, fBodyAccJerk_std_Z, fBodyAccJerk_meanFreq_X, fBodyAccJerk_meanFreq_Y, fBodyAccJerk_meanFreq_Z, fBodyGyro_mean_X, fBodyGyro_mean_Y, fBodyGyro_mean_Z, fBodyGyro_std_X, fBodyGyro_std_Y, fBodyGyro_std_Z, fBodyGyro_meanFreq_X, fBodyGyro_meanFreq_Y, fBodyGyro_meanFreq_Z, fBodyAccMag_mean, fBodyAccMag_std, fBodyAccMag_meanFreq, fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_mean, fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_std, fBodyBodyAccJerkMag_meanFreq, fBodyBodyGyroMag_mean, fBodyBodyGyroMag_std, fBodyBodyGyroMag_meanFreq, fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_mean, fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_std, fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag_meanFreq

References
[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012 http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones